# Dungeon Adventure
### Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ds8EWP5ZJLM
### Description:
* In Dungeon Adventure, the player enters a randomly generated dungeon full of monsters and items. The dungeon is a symmetrical grid ranging in size from 3x3 to 10x10, and only orthogonal movement (left, right, up, or down) is possible. The goal is to visit every space in the dungeon without dying, which occurs when the player's health reaches 0. However, the player does not know what a space contains until they visit it. Unvisited spaces are represented by question marks, previously visited ones are displayed as dots/periods, and the player's current position is the letter H (for Hero). Spaces may contain monsters, items, encounters, or nothing at all. Encounters can make the player either lose or gain health.
* Monsters must be engaged in combat until either they or the player dies. Both monsters and players have Attack and Defence values; damage dealt when attacking is equal to the attacker's Attack minus the target's Defence. The player may also use finisher attackers to do 50% additional damage, but they are usually best saved for ending a fight, as using one makes the monster's next attack do 50% additional damage to them (the vulnerability does not persist between fights). Monsters do not have finisher attacks.
* Monsters grow in strength the deeper the player gets into the dungeon, but the player gains XP from killing monsters, levelling up once they gain enough. Gaining a level increases the player's stats. Additionally, items allow the player to augment their stats or gain access to new abilities or Special Attacks. Items also grow in strength the deeper the player gets in the dungeon. Both players and monsters may have Special Attacks, which allow various effects such as restoring health or doing large amounts of damage. Only players may have items and the unique abilities that can come with them (e.g. temporarily gaining Attack after being damaged).
* Design wise, the game is meant to use RNG to put the player in difficult situations that they must use strategy (or more RNG) to get out of. Players shouldn't be able to go in and spam "a" (to attack) and pick up the first items they see, and except to come out alive. They're meant to use items that synergise with each other, strategically alternate between normal and finisher attacks, and clear the outer areas of the dungeon first, levelling up before going too deep into the rest. Players may still die even if they use good strategies, and that's fine; the randomness encourages and enhances replayability.
* On the programming side, monsters, the player, special attacks, items, and the dungeon itself are all represented as objects. Since monsters and players share traits such as health and attack, they both inherit from the essentially abstract superclass Character. Characters use composition to possess special attacks and items, and the dungeon is also an object since object oriented programming is what I'm most familiar and comfortable with. Everything is in one file because I don't think my project is long or complicated enough that it needs to be split into several.
* All gameplay takes place in a loop, with the player making one move in the dungeon, resolving whatever interaction they trigger, and then the win condition being checked to determine if the loop should end or not. All input gathered from the player is done through a function that first checks its validity, to ensure no exceptions are thrown due to invalid inputs. Special attacks and items use switch statements to determine their functionality based on what their name is, as making over two dozen subclasses for them all seemed unnecessarily complicated. The project doesn't rely on any external code beyond the Random library, for populating the spaces in the dungeon via random number generation, so each dungeon is different.
